README.md, before:

# borg-scripts

Set of bash scripts to simplify backups with [borg](https://www.borgbackup.org/).  
These are for my personal use, but shared with the open source community in case anyone finds them useful.

### Setup

Set up the following directory layout for backups:
```bash
# create backup directory
mkdir -p /backup
# initiate new repo, define encryption method
borg init -e ENCRYPTION /backup/repo
```

Then clone the repo under `/backup/borg-scripts` and rename `backup.sh.cfg.example` to `backup.sh.cfg`, configuring the values as desired (borg passphrase for the repo, directories of the machine to backup, etc.).

### Scheduled run

On distributions with systemd, the scheduled run can be configured used the timer and service files provided under utils/ . More generally, it's simply a case of putting `/backup/borg-scripts/backup.sh` to be executed in cron with the desired schedule.

### Pre/Post scripts

Before and after the backup is executed, scripts can be run by placing them in the scripts dir with a pre_ or post_ prefix and setting them as executable. These can be used to offload the backup somewhere, perform preparation and cleanup actions, etc.

Commit message:

Add post script to offload backup to NAS and move to scripts.avail/scripts.d setup

README.md, after:

# borg-scripts

Set of bash scripts to simplify backups with [borg](https://www.borgbackup.org/).  
These are for my personal use, but shared with the open source community in case anyone finds them useful.

### Setup

Set up the following directory layout for backups:
```bash
# create backup directory
mkdir -p /backup
# initiate new repo, define encryption method
borg init -e ENCRYPTION /backup/repo
```

Then clone the repo under `/backup/borg-scripts` and rename `backup.sh.cfg.example` to `backup.sh.cfg`, configuring the values as desired (borg passphrase for the repo, directories of the machine to backup, etc.).

### Scheduled run

On distributions with systemd, the scheduled run can be configured used the timer and service files provided under utils/ . More generally, it's simply a case of putting `/backup/borg-scripts/backup.sh` to be executed in cron with the desired schedule.

### Pre/Post scripts

Before and after the backup is executed, scripts can be run by placing them in the scripts.d dir with a pre_ or post_ prefix. Some example scripts are provided in scripts.avail and can be symlinked in script.d for inclusion in the run. These can be used to offload the backup somewhere, perform preparation and cleanup actions, etc.
